E2fsprogs 1.46.6 (September 12, 2022)
=====================================

Updates/Fixes since v1.46.5:

UI and Features
---------------

Debugfs's ncheck command now allows the inode number to be surrounded by
angle brackets, to be consistent with other debugfs commands.

Debugfs no longer prints a scary message when debugfs -c (which enables
"catastrophic mode") is used.  This was intended to allow debugfs to
operate on very badly corrupted file systems, but it is now sometimes
used to suppress reading the block and inode bitmaps when they are not
needed.

Resize2fs will round down the requested new file system size to the
nearest cluster boundary when resizing bigalloc file systems.


Fixes
-----

Avoid triggering udev in dumpe2fs and "resize2fs -P" for file systems
with MMP enabled by opening the device read-only when reading the MMP
block.

Fix a bug where e2fsck could fail when specifying an undo file and an
explicit superblock number.

Fix e2image so it won't potentially loop forever for certain invalid
file systems.

Fix resize2fs to honor the E2FSPROGS_FAKE_TIME environment variable.
This allows embedded system builders who use resize2fs as part of their
image build process to create reproducible images.

Fix tune2fs to avoid a crash if the journal replay fails and to make
sure its exit status is non-zero if there is some failure.

Fix tune2fs, fuse2fs, and debugsfs to update j_tail_sequence when
replaying the journal.

Add additional bullet-proofing for very badly corrupted file systems.
Try avoid UBSAN warnings, null pointer derferences, and other memory
bugs.  (Addresses CVE-2022-1304)

Check for and handle malloc() failures when computing the log filename
in e2fsck and in the libss library.

Fix tune2fs and e2fsck to accept pathames which include '=' characters.
Previously arguments to tune2fs and e2fsck which included '=' characters
are presumed to be blkid specifiers such as UUID=xxx or LABEL=yyy.  If a
specifier is both a valid pathname name and blkid tag name specifier,
priority is given to a blkid resolved pathname.

Update and clarify's chattr's man page and usage message.


Performance, Internal Implementation, Development Support etc.
--------------------------------------------------------------

Update to autoconf 2.71.

Update flags used to create shared library on Darwin/MacOS.

Add tests/fuzz directory with fuzzers from oss-fuzz.

Fix various Coverity and compiler warnings.

Make tests more portable on various different OS's and system
configurations (e.g., with SELinux enabled).

Use mallinfo2() instead of mallinfo() where avilable, since mallinfo()
is deprecated on newer glibc versions.

E2fsck will no longer do a full scan of disconnected directory when
trying to print the parent directory, which is pointless and can slow
down e2fsck if there are a large number of disconnected directories.

Fix the setup-schroot script to work on non-Linux platforms.

Fix memory leaks on error paths.

Updated config.guess and config.sub with newer versions from the FSF.

Add Friulian translation.

Update Chinese and Malay translations.
